Hey there.
Welcome back.
So before I even introduce this topic let me just add that I'm sorry if my voice sounds a bit off.
I'm sick of been sick kind of a long time now and I've been waiting to record this section putting it
off until I feel better and my voice goes back to normal but it's just not happening.
So I hope it's not too distracting.
Maybe you'll like it.
And then the rest of my content is disappointing because my voice doesn't sound so deep anyway.
So this is a topic.
Regular expressions are rejects.
That's something a lot of students have been requesting a meeting in after the course has been published.
I had something.
People have been talking about on the discussion boards and it's a good addition.
A lot of times students leave requests for topics that are very specific to their own life or their
own situation kind of the things that would help them and sometimes add those in.
But often I try and look for things that actually make sense for the majority of students things that
anyone would find useful and rejects is one of those topics.
OK.
So without further ado let's talk about regular expressions.
What are they.
So if you're not familiar with the term rejects a regular expressions.
I'll start by saying that it's not a Python specific topic.
This is something like HGP requests for example.
But those exist in pretty much any programming language or you can make requests using a programming
language.
It's the same idea with regular expressions.
It's a concept that is separate from Python but Python has an implementation where we can write and
use regular expressions in our code.
So what do they do.
Well there are a way of describing patterns within text or strings.
It's basically a fancy set of syntax of special characters that we can string together to make these
patterns these templates that we want to match.
I think it will help just to take a look at an example.
So let's say we're working with email addresses we ask a user to enter an e-mail and we could write
Python code to just check if it follows the correct format of an email.
So before we I don't know maybe we'll will send a request and we'll send an email to that email address.
But before we do that we want to make sure that it's even in the valid format.
Why try and send an e-mail to an address that is clearly wrong it doesn't contain a dot or an at symbol
or it's just a bunch of numbers.
It's a phone number instead.
Why waste time and resources sending an email to that.
What we going to do is write Python code to check.
Does this match the format of an email.
So what is the format of an email.
Well I mean we've seen things like this write some letters at need that sign and then a domain like
gmail dot com.
And if we wanted every email too if you want to be very basic and just write Python code to check if
there's an at symbol somewhere in the input string from a user that's easy.
We know how to do that we can just do you know is if at symbol in email address.
True or false if it's false then you throw an error or something but it's more complicated than that.
Even just the symbol there only is allowed to be one.
We can't have two of them.
So already That's an that's an extra line of logic we have to add in and it can't be at the beginning
and it can't be at the very end.
Not only can it not be at the end it can't be called gmail dot c o at sign M It has to be before the
dot and the domain.
So just that logic on its own is a lot to implement from scratch to a bunch of if statements.
A lot of things we're checking for but it's more complicated than that because we have things like dots
that we can have in multiple places in the email.
So you have gmail dot com or yahoo dot com.
But then we also have Carly Simon.
That's a valid email address so we have letters and Dot we can also have dashes and numbers or hyphens
and I don't remember which is which or if they're actually the same thing.
But I'm going to call it a dash and numbers letters.
We have dots we can also have plus signs and underscores but only in this first part before the at sign.
Then we have a single sign then we have some letters.
What else can we have.
I think letters and dashes and numbers potentially then a single dot only one and then some more letters
and then nothing else afterwards.
So to write Python code to do that would actually be a lot of logic using what we know right now.
We could iterate over each character and check if we're before the sign this character can be a letter
or a number or a dot or a plus and so on and then check the next character in the next one then we hit
the at sign and then our rules change and then we hit the dot and then the rules change again.
And it's a lot of work but basically the formula boils down to this.
This is a rough pattern that there are more precise things we can do but this is a pretty standard overview.
So an email address starts with one or more letters a number plus sign an underscore a dash or a period
a dot.
So that would be this part here or this then a single sign then one or more letter number or a hyphen
slash dash.
So we can't use things like a plus sign here or what else we can't have a dot here.
We only have one dot and that comes afterwards.
So the domain itself Hotmail meals Yahoo.
Hello Gmail has to be letters numbers or hyphens.
Then a single dot and then after that single dot it has to end with one or more letters numbered dash
or dot.
So those are the rules and to implement this on our own.
Like I said it's a lot of logic.
So instead we can take advantage of regular expressions.
If you've never seen rejects this is going to look like a bunch of jibberish.
It still looks like gibberish to me.
Anytime I write regular expressions the tradeoff is that they're very useful but they're just hideous
and very difficult to understand.
You have to step through one thing at a time.
They're kind of an pythonic in that way.
Python is all about being clear you know having things be very semantic obvious what something does.
Regular expressions are the complete opposite.
But they're still very very useful not trying to say you shouldn't use them.
OK.
So this is what we get.
This is a potential regular expression that would match emails.
I want to be clear this is not a Python specific thing.
If you just tried to run this code right now.
Copy and paste.
It's not going to work.
This is the regular expression the pattern that we've defined.
Then we have to work with Python or javascript or whatever language we want.
We worked with the regular expression library or module that is kind of an adapter to allow us to use
this syntax.
So I'll show you that in just a bit.
But we're going to start this section off by talking about regular expressions on their own outside
of Python.
Outside of any programming language we're just going to work with them in the browser do some live editing
but let's step through this.
I color coded it.
Hopefully this is showing up OK.
So this first bit all of this craziness here corresponds to starts with one or more letter number plus
underscore dash period.
You can actually see that in here.
If we look at between these brackets I'm saying OK we can have a lowercase A to Z.
So any lower case letter or an upper case A to Z the numbers digits 0 through 9 and underscore period
plus sign or a dash.
And we have one or more of those sets that this plus sign means.
Afterwards we'll learn about these symbols as we go.
So this is not the only time I'm going to explain this.
And then this little bit indicates that it has to start with this so it can't just start off with you
know some other random character has to start off with one of these characters repeated one or more
times then a single outside so easy.
Just put nets on there then.
Similarly one or more letter number or dash.
So that's what we have here.
Letters numbers or dash no plus sign no period no underscore but one or more of those than a single
dot.
And that's what this means we have to escape the don't means something special in regular expressions.
So to just actually say we want a period we need to do what is said backslash forwards.
That's backslash right.
Yeah backslash dot.
And then finally one or more letter number dash or period just what this has here.
And then this dollar sign means it must end with that nothing else comes afterwards.
So this is kind of a mess.
If you've never seen these before it's crazy.
I totally get that.
Don't worry though in this section we're going to step through some of the basics.
You know this is not a comprehensive regular expressions course.
I could easily make a course on it because it's pretty complex there's a lot of stuff we can get into
there's I don't know 30 40 50 maybe more symbols and special characters and they all have different
meanings and there's some logic involved it's not just it's not all straightforward I put it that way.
So I'm going to just survey some of the important things show some common use cases and some of the
things that you might do like check emails or phone numbers credit cards that sort of thing rather than
super weird out there challenging regular expressions.
So before I leave this slide the whole goal of rejects is that it allows us to define patterns and then
in python we can take a pattern that we define and test inputs say you know hey pythoness this string
match the pattern I defined or how many times does this string contain matches and do things based off
of that.
So we could take two or three lines to validate an email rather than I don't know 50 60 lines to do
it without a regular expression.
So a bunch of if statements and loops and checks manually trying to see if that if the sign is in there
if it's followed by you know one or more letters so I won't go through all of it.
Just trust me if you tried to implement this on your own it would be a lot of work.
So the tradeoff is that we have to deal with the syntax OK so quickly a couple of other use cases already
mentioned them credit card number validating.
There's a particular format that credit card numbers follow.
And I think it's been a while since I've done this.
You can also use packages out there I think depending on the credit card company it changes.
But there's always a dependable format phone number validating.
You know you have different numbers spaced out for different parts of the world.
Some might start with an area code some might have a country code.
Well I guess every place has a country code but sometimes people won't enter it.
You need to put a plus at the beginning for international numbers.
But sometimes people might not put that there.
They might put parentheses around parts of it that might put a hyphen in there that might fit spaces
we can account for all of that using a regular expression and define a couple of acceptable formats.
But other things you can do aside from validating information you can do really advanced find and replace.
So if you have a bunch of text and you want to find repeated words that's a classic example you have
a book somehow certain words are repeated one after another like once upon a time time.
Alice was a girl in Wonderland wonderland.
Not how the book begins but if we wanted to reduce those duplicates or remove them without regular expressions
you would have to iterate over.
I don't even know iterate over every character or split things on spaces.
Maybe it'd be easiest but on spaces.
And then iterate through the list that you get and check when one thing is you know equal to the one
behind it or ahead of it.
And then if that's the case you remove it or you replace it with an empty string with the regular expression.
We can do it with a single line also formatting text and output so we can use it to help if we have
an input string.
It's not just for searching.
We can also format things basically replace information based off of a pattern.
So if we had a phone number and we wanted to make all of them match the same format with spaces and
then a hyphen between the last little bit and parentheses and a plus sign at the beginning we could
do that with a regular expression.
And one final example that I thought about as I was making these slides has to do with syntax highlighting.
So this is the actual syntax highlighting in slide dot com.
I didn't have to make these colors myself.
It knew it automatically.
I told it's Python and it took care of the rest according to rules and it presumably uses regular expressions.
I don't have a way of knowing that for sure but that's how most syntax highlighting is done.
There's rules you know if anything is between two quotes make it one color.
If anything is a keyword like Def or if I make it another color.
Any user defined names like variables or methods or function names make them another color.
So they could easily be done with regular x.
Well easily it's a stretch but it could be done with regular expressions and it's much easier than it
could be without them.
Let's put it that way anyway so that's not so brief intro to regular expressions or rejects.
We're going to dive into actually typing them.
Learning a lot of the rules and then learning how to use them in Python and the next couple of videos
in this section but to start we're going to just talk about regular expressions outside of python and
that will start in the next video.
OK.
Thanks for bearing with me in my sick voice.
See in the next video.